next we have Ivon Fang um who is a
current member of our incubator program
here at greay area she does a lot of
work with AI uh human AI sort of
collaborative generative uh visual
systems um also creative support systems
and other sorts of fascinating work
and we're happy to have her here yeah
thank you
hi everyone thank you so much for Barry
for uh the kind introduction um my name
is yvon and I'm an artist working with
game engines and AI um so similar to the
theme of this Festival I am deeply
interested in creating art with
technology probably like a lot of you
here um and I'm really passionate about
using technology for the common good and
for me a lot of that is centered around
climate change and environmental ISM um
a little bit about myself I have a
background in uh pretty multidisiplinary
background in visual art and also human
computer interaction but also in climate
and international relations um I also
spent most of my life in Shanghai China
which is a very urban city so as I got
more and more in touch with nature and
non- man-made environments I just became
more obsessed with it as a topic so um
I'm first going to share a little bit
about my past Explorations around uh
technology and the
environment um my early Explorations
have been centered around kind of using
technology to connect with uh the
natural environment on an emotional
level or to invite humans to interact
with the non-human entities such as
plants on equal levels of agency or even
co-create with them um for example in
one of the previous projects I've
created uh I've tried to facilitate
human plant interaction by translating
human stress to light colors that plants
can understand and and in another
project I collaborated with three other
artists to drive AI image Generation by
letting viewers touch the
plant and I have also always been
interested uh let me just play this um
I've also always been interested in
simulation Technologies like games and
uh game engines and Virtual Worlds um in
my past uh HCI research I have
investigated uh games as a technology
that could potentially change people's
attitude and behavior around uh issues
such as climate change which is a
perspective that has inspired me greatly
as well and one of the previous projects
um I'm sharing a little bit here is I
worked on is a web VR branching
narrative game uh and in this game I
created a fictional Planet undergoing
climate crisis very much like our own
and through that I'm trying to uh create
a distanced narrative uh for people to
engage with such a havy topic uh more
easily and uh hopefully can also
potentially uh provide a space for
people to try out different actions and
decisions to see what the future could
play out uh could play out for
them and recently the technology that I
am especially interested and fascinated
with is generative AI um where's my
cursor okay um this actually started
with my fascination with the possibility
to collaborate with a creative non-human
agentic technology which I'll touch on a
little bit later but I found Ai and
particularly the inner workings of such
generative uh models to be equally
interesting
conceptually um generative image model
is a creation engine um it could
simulate nature in a certain way um it
can be very speculative it has high
degrees of agency which is unlike a lot
of other Technologies and although these
models are very biased they are biased
depending on who trained them and
similarly they could be manipulated to
align with anyone or anything given the
resources these models are generative
and nature is also generative um they
are probabilistic not deterministic and
nature is also unpredictable and
probabilistic too ecology is always
evolving and parts of the ecosystem is
always interacting and boundaries are
not rigid a little similar to the latent
space in a generative image model where
Concepts can be mixed and boundaries can
be blurred to create new entities and
realities I found this to be a very
beautiful metaphor um to create
narratives about nature and ecology with
such technology where it simulates
nature itself and prompts us to think
about new ways to relate to Nature and
or uh about possibilities of a
non-anthropocentric
world um one area of my Exploration with
this technology has been trying
different techniques of blending and
mixing different concepts I try to blur
the semantic divide between humans and
non-humans and to generate all kind kind
of inbetweenness along the idea of kind
of a non othering way of relating to the
environment and uh being hopeful about
how that way of thinking can change the
choices maybe people make in their
day-to-day
lives um one way of blending cemented
Concepts can be done through text
conditioning and diffusion models um
which is a technology similar to the
text to image generator stable diffusion
that some of you probably tried before
one of the main Innovations in diffusion
models is uh text conditioning and it
functions by turning words into vectors
used for um conditioning the uh
diffusion model to generate the final
image guiding the model to navigate the
latent space uh different regions of its
latent space uh which is the possibility
space of all the potential images a
model can
generate and since somewhere along the
lines the semantic concepts are
transformed into numbers that opens up
very exciting new creative possibility
of mixing the semantics and creating
novel images that look in between
different creatures or things this
technique used with real-time models
such as stream diffusion with the help
of existing open- Source tools such as
stream stream diffusion TD in touch
designer opens up new possibility to
create generative visual narratives that
represents inbetweenness of familiar
things blurs the semantic boundaries
between species and Concepts and is
endless here in the GIF um you can see
I'm uh playing around with a real time
uh model and um mix the mixing the
embeddings of promps describing a human
face with promps describing a jellyfish
and adding them together with different
weights and you can see the person's
face gradually morphing from a human to
a jellyfish showing all the hybrid forms
in
between so that's a little bit about Ai
and attempting to use it as a metaphor
for nature um I me not only is AI
generative it is also agentic um which
in my opinion makes it very different
from conventional artist tools and
mediums such as paintbrush or even a
game engine so how could artists work
with
AI I'm really interested in this topic
because I'm so captivated by the fact
that uh there's a possibility that
creativity is not just constrained to
humans um machines could act creative
too whether you agree if it's truly
creative or not um they generate re uh
novel content sometimes outside people's
expectations this made me humbled and
inspired and I've always been seeking
ways to collaborate uh with these
systems in a creative way and I find
beauty in seeing machines as having
agency and creativity too which I think
is a form of interaction with a gentic
technology that is non othering but
other uh but rather collaborative in the
past year I have been building demos and
tools specifically with real-time image
generation models and here you can see a
uh demo
um of a a World building assistant I put
together where the designer or artist
can iterate through many different
versions of a world by simply composing
a basic 3D scene and also adding and
subtracting elements in that world in
the UI on the right um to see what the
resulting scene could look
like these are um uh kind of what I've
been experimenting as creativity
augmentation tool focused on supporting
imagination and ideation of the artist
and on the other hand I think these
Technologies are also changing digital
um image making and World building by
presenting the canvas as an endless and
malleable possibility
space and in my recent work I also um
started using a large language models um
as narrative manager or a collaborator
with high degrees of agency in order to
drive narrative experience that brings
in interactive elements from The Real
World my framework um includes a central
text prompt that represents the entire
entire world setting and a description
of the language model's role um a
sensing component takes in an external
trigger from The Real World such as a
human presence being detected and sends
a trigger to the language model in
listing its help to First analyze the
current story and then decide
accordingly what happens next in this
world this way I tried to create a novel
form of interactive uh and generative
narrative
experience I used this method in one of
my recent insulations dreamfield which
I'm going to share a little bit uh
next so now I want to talk a little bit
more about dreamfield which is an
installation that I got to develop uh as
part of gray area's incubator uh program
this
year uh dreamfield is an interactive
installation that depicts a fictional
world where an AI who chooses to align
with the Earth manages a virtual
ecosystem and its goal is to recreate an
ecosystem that thinks is ideal for Earth
in this world the imaginary AI will turn
every human visitor that it encounters
into a creature that it thinks will
benefit its ecosystem that's why you can
see in the images uh drifts once the um
audience comes inside the field of
vision of the AI their face slowly
morphs into a creature that the AI picks
at the end of the
transformation um the audience is added
to the ecosystem in the form of this new
creature and so the background landscape
also gets updated with the new set of
creatures that currently live in this
ecosystem and here both the morphing
faces in the front and the landscape are
generated in real time using uh
real-time AI image models conceptually
this insulation is a speculative
narrative um in response to unfolding
ecological disasters and an expression
of ecological grief experienced uh by
myself and many other people um and I
also intend to create an embodied
interactive experience uh with AI where
the audience will be able to experience
a slightly unsettling narrative where um
uh where the power dynamics of energy
extraction is
reversed um I also seek to create some
form of cognitive dissonance uh
cognitive dissonance and invite the
audience to pause for a moment and
ponder their own roles within the
ecosystems uh in a more technical sense
I also intend this installation to be an
experimentation of a novel medium for
simulation and interactive narrative and
my goal with this work is to create a
new synthetic media that would unlock
more impactful and engaging interactive
narrative
experience so I'm experimenting with
non-conventional mediums for World
building in this project uh and as
opposed to just using game engine only I
rely on AI rendering to simulate the
ecosystem for the landscape in the
background um of the projection I use
real time AI image Generation Um to
continuously evolve and update the scene
on top of streamed uh footage of random
Rome inside a simple open world made
with Unreal Engine for example you can
see at the bottom there is a ecosystem
involving squirrels and wild blueberries
based on an abstract based world and I
as I mentioned before I believe that
recent generative technology U makes it
so that the canvas in the screen becomes
probabilistic and worlds also become
probab istic and no longer finite by
incorporating real-time AI image
generation that can constantly be
updated through updating the text prompt
used to drive it virtual worlds are no
longer limited to the static 3D models
that the artist created and placed in
it and on top of that I um play around
to combine the AI rendering and game
engine World in uh kind of a realtime
texturing effect by composing the uh
compositing the output stream from the
real-time image generation model and the
abstract open world in Unreal Engine um
and I seek to achieve a dream like and
disorienting visual effect where the 3D
model seems to be textured with a
material that keeps updating in real
time to reflect what the ecosystem
consists of now this Echoes the concept
of the installation 2 where the AI
driven ecosystem is more of an ai's
dream um full of hallucination and it
opens up new possibility new narrative
possibilities where the world is not
limited to just one form um and one set
of inhabitants but evolves over time
into completely different
versions and for the foreground where
the audience face is morphing into that
of a creature I try to blur the semantic
divide between humans and non-human
creatures through prompt blending uh the
technique that I shared a little bit
before so these are two separate
instances of real-time diffusion models
and I use these image generation models
um kind of as a collaborator and a tool
um that helps execute my concept for
this artwork these models can generate
image without my direct interference um
and they do carry within themselves very
inherent bias and limitations for
example by working more with them I
noticed they haven't been trained on the
images of all the species on Earth
obviously um they also have only been
trained on very limited representations
um of each species and all of that is
part of the concept and narrative
too um and these two parts the morphing
of the human face into a non-human
creature and the updating ecosystem are
synced to the same timeline to drive a
coherent narrative Loop uh an
interactive
experience and this narrative Loop is
maintained by the language model which
functions as the narrative manager that
I talked about before so here is kind of
a breakdown of how I made the whole
system function uh with the help of a
language model as the narrative manager
the world state is represented and
abstracted as a text prompt this
describing the type of terrain time of
day species and their numbers and the
audience presence is the external
trigger that uh external signal that
triggers uh an update uh in the text
prompt um by the AI to steer The
Narrative development and the language
model has a set of rules detailing the
various actors an ecosystem um needs
including uh ranging from producers to
decomposers and guiding it to determine
what new creature to add to the
ecosystem
and this updated text representation
drives the entire system and the final
visual
output so on the one hand the ecosystem
visualizing the background uses the
updated text representation of the
ecosystem as the image prompt and on the
other hand the morphing of the audience
face is also driven by two weighted
prompts of a human face and also a
creature face that is consistent with
the updated
text uh and another technology uh that
I'm currently exploring uh and very
interested in is to implement an AI
agent system to drive the ecosystem and
generate interaction between each
creature in this world inside the game
engine exam example Frameworks that have
really fascinated me include the
generative agents uh from Stanford
researchers last year which simulates a
human- centered village community where
each human agent driven by an AI model
plans and takes actions and interacts
with each other um through reflecting on
their own observations and memories
so how could we modify this framework to
create uh a simulakra for an ecosystem
where uh the actors are not humans and
is that at all possible and if we use
such technology to simulate a
non-anthropocentric world can we learn
something new from it these are topics
I'm really passionate about exploring
further I also want to give a quick
shout out to the world engines Lab at
gray area run by the artist Delta Arc
whose work is um really inspiring and
interesting uh to my work as well
um so thank you so much uh for
everyone's attention uh please reach out
if uh any of the topics um interest you
too and um thank you for GR for this
opportunity to
[Applause]
speak thank you so much Ivon for that
presentation um yeah I really had the
privilege of installing dreamfield here
at Great area and displ it with our
audience this summer um in a Solo
exhibition um that really to me brought
the audience into a new kind of
encounter with AI that I think is was
very novel to them to me um and just in
general in the field I one thing that I
think is really interesting during
Barbara's talk she was talking about 3D
models and the kind of crudeness of what
3D modeling is like and you know you're
working with these burgeoning language
models and these you know brand new or
workflows that in many cases you're
inventing or creating for the first time
what are some of those pain points and
like how can you speak to the current
state of AI tools for artists were there
moments where you were frustrated um and
what did that frustration look
like yeah
I turn this
on okay yeah I think definitely there
have been moments of um I definitely
think AI tools could be make made more
accessible to artists um not everyone
has the skill sets needed to dive deep
into the model and customize it and make
it really controllable I think
controllable generation of content and
image is still a very uh challenging
aspect in the AI technology so that part
for sure um and I also think uh the data
part because data is so in important for
the model's output and what it can do
and uh the creative control the artist
has over the model and that requires a
lot of Labor um so yeah so if the artist
wants to really control the output of
these image models they have to put in a
lot of work and a lot of manual work um
with preparing data set um and then
where do these data come from and uh how
do you Source these data ethically um
and all of that is something that I'm
thinking about a lot too what kind of
advice do you have for artists who are
interested in experimenting with these
Technologies what obviously so many of
these models are proprietary um or and
or uh blackbox in a way how what sort of
entry points can you recommend to
somebody who wants to dip their toes in
the AI Waters yeah that's a great
question I think I think I would
recommend working more with these models
um building like playful interfaces and
just to engage it more use it in the
narratives to see what it comes up with
I think in this process I learned a lot
about like the inherent limitations and
bias and ways of uh prediction these
models have and I think that's a very
informative and helpful um perspective
to have uh just by working more and
being more with these models and
spotting more like its behaviors and
patterns I think is very good awesome
thank you so much Ian really appreciate
it
[Applause]